#What are ERPs and how are they generated? 
**What are ERPs?** 
Event related potentials (ERPS) are essentially brain resposnes that are elicited by a particular stimulus( in our case the stimuli are words since we are doing psycholinguistic research). Further, the brain response is time locked to that particular stimulus. ERPS are renowned for their superior temporal resolution. Moreover, they are good for answering questions about the human mind rather than the human brain. That is, ERPs are ideal for use in answering questions such as those related to cognition as opposed to where certain processes occur in the brain. 

**How are ERPs generated?**
Majority of the time, ERPs are formed by postsynaptic potentials occurring when neurotransmitters bind to receptors altering the flow of ions across cell membrane (Luck, 2014). First off, before delving into ERPs we need to discuss about electroencepholograms (EEG). EEG measures brain activity by collecting postsynaptic potentials. Further, pyramidal cells are assumed to generate scalp ERPs (Luck,2014). Before the EEG can collect postsynaptic potentials a chain of events in the brain must occur. First, a pyramidal neuron is excited by receiving an excitatory signal or voltage from an active axon terminal leading to positive ions to flow into the dendrites whcih causes the intracellular space to become positive and extracellular space to be negative (in apical dendrite). Voltage will continue to flow through the neuron and exit through the cell body and basal densrites. Thus, creating a small dipole. This dipole is what the EEG collects or senses. However, just one dipole from one pyramidal neuron is not enough to be sensed by the EEG. Thousands of pyramidal neurons or more have to be synchronized and in a particular alignment to be summed together to be picked up or sensed by the EEG. To give a brief summary of how an ERP is generated. After the EEG is collected, we then pre-process and process the data. Then, we generate ERPs for each participant. Finally, we use ERPlab toolbox to generate the grand average ERP. This is the data or ERP that we have worked for and which shows our findings. 